# Comparing Models for Classifying Location and Movement Parameters for Auslan Sign Language

## About
The goal of this project is to compare different machine learning techniques for classifying the primary path movement and primary location parameters for Auslan sign language. Auslan is the primary sign language used by the Australian deaf community with a recorded 16,000 Australians voting Auslan as their primary language used at home during the 2021 census. Providing a working sign language recognition system will allow for better interactivity with the many different systems spoken language users receive today.
There are many different machine learning algorithms, were each have different bias, which make each better or worse at classifying Auslan’s movement and location parameters. The models that will be tested in this project is, k-Nearest Neighbours Classifier, Linear Discriminant Analysis, Quadratic Discriminant Analysis, Gaussian Naive Bayes, Decision Tree Classifier, Random Forest Classifier, Neural Network, ResNet 18 and 3D ResNet18. These models where trained on movement and location labelled coordinate data, extracted from the Endangered Languages Archive using Google’s media pipe.
From the results, the models that performed with the highest accuracy where the Random Forest Classifier and ResNet 18. These two models where able to achieve higher accuracies then all other models for both datasets. It was also noted that the Random Forest Classifier, was only 4 MB in size and would predict classification within a tenth of a millisecond, making this model viable for real-time predicting.
